Building the Virtual private Cloud on AWS

VPC : Virtual private cloud service allows us to create a virtual network for instance and services it allows to isolated services that we define we can use both IPv4 and IPv6. this service lies in network and content delivery section 

To create a VPC we need to go for some steps other wise AWS allows us to default VPC.

Step 1: Go through the navigation bar and Find Netwrk and Content delivery then click on VPC.
 
STep 2: Click on Create VPC 
IPv4 CIDR block
You must specify an IPv4 address range for your VPC. Specify the IPv4 address range as a Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block; for example, 10.0.0.0/16. A CIDR block size must be between a /16 netmask and /28 netmask.

You can provide IPv6 but in my case i have small network so I’m creating it with IPv4. 

Step 3: Create VPC we have created it so far but we need to understand it properly.
----------------------------
Subnet:	A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC. After creating a VPC, you can add one or more subnets in each Availability Zone. 
In my case i have 6 Availability IP’s Subnets
I’m selecting a first one for my small subnet.

Then click on Create subnet. ---> Select your VPC ID
Fill all required inputs
then click on Create Subnet.
You can share your subnet as per your demand.

So i have set up with my subnet in VPC
---------------------------
Route Tables:
After this go through the Routing table to transmission of data and service over internet.

Step1: Go through the route table then click on you VPC 
Step2: create a route table 
Now we have successfully set up with route table
--------------------------
Now lets go with the Internet gatways.
An internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that enables communication between your VPC and the internet.
To use an internet gateway, attach it to your VPC and specify it as a target in your subnet route table for internet-routable IPv4 or IPv6 traffic. An internet gateway performs network address translation (NAT) for instances that have been assigned public IPv4 addresses.
Step 1: create a gatway. named it and 
Step2: top right corner click on action and then click on attach to VPC
Step 3: select your VPC and then attach it to the gatway.(you can do it by CLI interface as well.)

Now we have successfully connected the gateway to the VPC.

So now i’m not going through others these set is enough for my webapp which we will be creating so
For more security of your VPC connection go through the 
--------------------------
Security

we can Connect it to ACL(Access controll layer ) and Security group.

Step 1: Go to security ---> Create network ACL
--------------------------
Configure with Security Group in VPC.

Step 1: go through it and then check your VPC then click on Create Security Group.

Step 2: add your security group name and the vpc that you want to secure 

after this add inbound and outbound rule by all TCP 

Step:3 click on Create Security Group.
We can set Network firewall to enhance more security.
